In the last video,
we looked at how you can create an array variable and specify the number of elements it's
designed to contain.
But what if you're not sure how many elements you need to cater for?
What if that number can vary as your code executes?
This is where we use dynamic arrays,
and that's what we'll be discussing in this video.
Let's go back into the Exercises folder and into the Section five folder and let's revisit
the Excel diagram on the right.
Here we have a representation of a dynamic array.
The first thing that distinguishes the dynamic array from the fixed one is the way in which
you declare it,
as we saw with the other examples in parentheses.
After the name of the array,
you normally specify the lowest and highest indexes with a dynamic array.
You don't you still need the parentheses,
but you put nothing between them so effectively.
You always start with a completely empty array.
As your code executes,
however,
you can then constantly re dimension.
You array.
You can say at this point I need four elements,
and I'm going to use the index's one to fool later on United 12 elements,
and you can man just re dimension your way and populate each element inside it later.
Let's say you don't need the last six elements again.
You can read.
I mentioned the array.
Lose the elements and you're in business.
So let's look at how this works in coded.
Let's say we're creating the macro,
which creates a report.
And at the start of the macro,
we want to get a list of all the people who need a copy of this report email to them.
We're going to leave it up to the user to enter unknown number of emails.
We want to save these emails in an array because we don't know how many there going to be.
We can't dimension the array,
so instead will use the dynamic array.
Let's simply call it dynamic a race that's mitt across to procedure.
View civil start by dem in an ordinary string variable str email Singular as strength and
will use this to capture each of the emails that's entered.
They will declare the dynamic array A S T R e mails plural and then we need parentheses
after the name because it's a dynamic array we don't put anything between them.
We'll also need to keep track of how many emails and being entered.
Let's do that with into e mails as Inter Gia.
So as we saw before two repeatedly display an input box.
We use a do loop so we start with do and we end with loop while str email is not equal to
and we can either years two double quotes and just remind you vb a as a constant that you
can also use which is VB No string.
So as soon as they hit the cancel button,
this will cease to be true and the loop will end Inside the loot.
We display an input box and capture the value entered by the user inside.
Str email So it's str email equals input box and let's just say add email.
Recipients press cancel to finish now.
Naturally,
when they press council str email will contain the null strength.
So before we add str email to our array,
we need to test that it doesn't contain the null string.
Hence we need an if statement if str female is not equal to baby.
No strength then and here we want to do three things.
First of all,
we need to add 12 hour interview variable so we can keep track of the number of emails that
have been added.
Secondly,
we need to increase the dimension of our dynamic array by one so that it can accommodate
the new email address.
And thirdly,
we need to add the email address to the array.
So first we say into e mails equals into e mails plus one,
then to change the dimension of,
ah dynamic array,
you use reading because you have already used them.
When you initially declared it so read him A S t ah,
e mails and then parentheses.
We were always going to start at one to in the emails.
So in there,
the first email it will be one toe one.
Hence,
the array will have a size of one.
Then it goes to 1 to 2 and so forth.
One other thing to bear in mind is that whenever you use the reading statement by default,
any existent values within your range will simply disappear.
You'll have the new dimension,
but you'll lose whatever was in the array.
If you don't want that to happen,
which on this occasion we don't You don't have to use the keyword preserve after reading.
So Reading Preserve will both change the size of the array on keep any existing values
intact.
So the final thing we need to do here is toe add str email to our array.
And to do that,
we simply use i N t e mails as the index because of course,
this will always represent the final value within the array,
the one that we've just made room for.
So a str e mails brackets into the nails equals str email the one that's just been entered
and then we close our if statement and if so,
that's all we need to do inside the loop and we then want to list all the emails as a
confirmation.
I'd say that we want to format them so that they're on separate lines and they're also
indented slightly from the first line within the dialog box.
We could obviously achieve this by creating a string variable looping through the array and
add in each item from the array into a string variable.
However,
BB A actually contains a function that does all that in one hit and it's called joyed.
So the joint function will take an array and separate each element inside the array with a
D limiter that you yourself can specify and you end up with a string which is ideal for our
purposes because it could just be tagged on to the end of our MSG box.
So let's begin by declaring a variable which will hold that string so dim.
S t ah e mails joined bit long,
but it makes it clear what the variables actually for a string.
So now here we need an if statement because clearly if into emails equal zero,
that means that the user simply click Cancel eso.
We have no email addresses to display as confirmation.
So we need an if statement if into emails is greater than zero then S T r e mails joined,
he calls join Source array will be a str females and the the limiter will be a carriage
return,
said VB CEO,
followed by a tab ampersand BB cab.
So as you can see that the limiter can be a combination of characters,
it doesn't have to be just a symbol character.
So that sounds strength.
Now we can display a message for the user using MSG box.
Report will be emailed to follow in addresses after sand on Let's split the line at that
point.
So let's have a couple of carriage returns,
maybe CR after sandy BBC are and a tab so that the first email is indented.
Maybe tab and finally str Females joined and inside of that variable,
each of the emails will be followed by a carriage return and a tab.
Since when we populated the variable,
we specified these characters as the D limiter.
So here we just need to end our if statement and then we're good to go.
So let's save and test.
Let's have Helen at our company.
L cone.
Okay.
And I think Bill needs a copy of this report as well.
Paste.
I missed the outside.
So it's ah,
copy at this time.
And of course,
Janet Paste.
And finally,
Melanie trim paste.
Once we've done all that,
we can then click on cancel and up comes our mystery box.
So we've got our return on our tabs.
Kickinit.
A dynamic array is one whose dimensions can change as many times as necessary during code
execution to declare a dynamic array,
use this in tax the rain name as data type i e.
Without specifying the lower and upper index to subsequently specify the dimensions of a
dynamic array.
Use this Intacs reading ray name X two y,
where X represents the lowest index and why the highest each time the reading statement is
used,
any values in the array and normally lost to ensure that any existing values a retained
used the alternative syntax reading,
preserved array name extra Y.